Update vs mac get started tutorials (#16349)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/tutorials/using-on-mac-vs-full-solution.md

---

> title: Building a complete .NET Core solution on macOS using Visual Studio for Mac

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Build a complete .NET Core solution using Visual Studio for Mac
```

Reviewer 2: "Create" might be a better verb.

Author: You have a point. I looked at the other articles, and they use "build". I'll merge this as is, and we can update all titles later if we want.

description: This article walks you through building a .NET Core solution that includes a reusable library and unit testing.
author: mairaw
ms.date: 12/19/2019
ms.custom: seodec18
---

> # Building a complete .NET Core solution on macOS using Visual Studio for Mac

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Build a complete .NET Core solution on macOS using Visual Studio for Mac
```

Reviewer 2: Actually "Create" might be a better verb, so as not to confuse with "compile".

## Prerequisites

- [.NET Core SDK 3.1 or later](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)
- [Visual Studio 2019 for Mac](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/mac/?utm_medium=microsoft&utm_source=docs.microsoft.com&utm_campaign=inline+link)

> For more information on prerequisites, see the [.NET Core dependencies and requirements](../install/dependencies.md?tabs=netcore30&pivots=os-macos). For the full system requirements of Visual Studio 2019 for Mac, see [Visual Studio 2019 for Mac Product Family System Requirements](/visualstudio/productinfo/vs2017-system-requirements-mac).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For more information on prerequisites, see the [.NET Core dependencies and requirements](../install/dependencies.md?tabs=netcore31&pivots=os-macos). For the full system requirements of Visual Studio 2019 for Mac, see [Visual Studio 2019 for Mac Product Family System Requirements](/visualstudio/productinfo/vs2019-system-requirements-mac).
```

## Building a library

> 1. On the Welcome screen, select **New Project**. In the **New Project** dialog under the **.NET Core** node, select the **.NET Standard Library** template. This ccommand reates a .NET Standard library that targets .NET Core as well as any other .NET implementation that supports version 2.1 of the [.NET Standard](../../standard/net-standard.md). If you have multiple versions of the .NET Core SDK installed, you can choose different versions of .NET Standard for your library. Choose ".NET Standard 2.1" and select **Next**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. On the Welcome screen, select **New Project**. In the **New Project** dialog under the **.NET Core** node, select the **.NET Standard Library** template. This command creates a .NET Standard library that targets .NET Core as well as any other .NET implementation that supports version 2.1 of the [.NET Standard](../../standard/net-standard.md). If you have multiple versions of the .NET Core SDK installed, you can choose different versions of .NET Standard for your library. Choose ".NET Standard 2.1" and select **Next**.
```

Reviewer 3: @tdykstra , A typo.
`This ccommand reates` -> `This command creates`.

   ![Visual Studio for Mac New project dialog](./media/using-on-mac-vs-full-solution/visual-studio-mac-new-project.png)

1. Name the project "TextUtils" (a short name for "Text Utilities") and the solution "WordCounter". Leave **Create a project directory within the solution directory** checked. Select **Create**.

   ![Visual Studio for Mac New project dialog options](./media/using-on-mac-vs-full-solution/visual-studio-mac-new-project-options.png)

1. In the **Solution** pad, expand the `TextUtils` node to reveal the class file provided by the template, *Class1.cs*. Ctrl-click the file, select **Rename** from the context menu, and rename the file to *WordCount.cs*. Open the file and replace the contents with the following code:

   [!code-csharp[Main](../../../samples/core/tutorials/using-on-mac-vs-full-solution/WordCounter/TextUtils/WordCount.cs)]

1. Save the file by using any of three different methods: use the keyboard shortcut <kbd>&#8984;</kbd>+<kbd>s</kbd>, select **File** > **Save** from the menu, or ctrl-click on the file's tab and select **Save** from the contextual menu. The following image shows the IDE window:

>    ![Visual Studio for Mac IDE window with class library file and method](./media/using-on-mac-vs-full-solution/visual-studio-mac-editor.png)

Reviewer 4: This image and the next two aren't showing up in staging.

Author: That's now fixed. (occasionally they still timeout for me, but reloading the image works).

## Prerequisites

- [.NET Core SDK 3.1 or later](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download)
- [Visual Studio 2019 for Mac](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/vs/mac/?utm_medium=microsoft&utm_source=docs.microsoft.com&utm_campaign=inline+link)

> For more information on prerequisites, see the [.NET Core dependencies and requirements](../install/dependencies.md?tabs=netcore31&pivots=os-macos). For the full system requirements of Visual Studio 2019 for Mac, see [Visual Studio 2019 for Mac Product Family System Requirements](/visualstudio/productinfo/vs2019-system-requirements-mac).

Reviewer: I've been removing tabs from the links so it goes to whatever is latest

```suggestion
For more information on prerequisites, see the [.NET Core dependencies and requirements](../install/dependencies.md?pivots=os-macos). For the full system requirements of Visual Studio 2019 for Mac, see [Visual Studio 2019 for Mac Product Family System Requirements](/visualstudio/productinfo/vs2019-system-requirements-mac).
```

## Building a library

> 1. On the Welcome screen, select **New Project**. In the **New Project** dialog under the **.NET Core** node, select the **.NET Standard Library** template. This command creates a .NET Standard library that targets .NET Core as well as any other .NET implementation that supports version 2.1 of the [.NET Standard](../../standard/net-standard.md). If you have multiple versions of the .NET Core SDK installed, you can choose different versions of .NET Standard for your library. Choose ".NET Standard 2.1" and select **Next**.

Reviewer: We've been calling these start window for the VS topics. Should it be consistent?

```suggestion
1. On the start window, select **New Project**. In the **New Project** dialog under the **.NET Core** node, select the **.NET Standard Library** template. This command creates a .NET Standard library that targets .NET Core as well as any other .NET implementation that supports version 2.1 of the [.NET Standard](../../standard/net-standard.md). If you have multiple versions of the .NET Core SDK installed, you can choose different versions of .NET Standard for your library. Choose ".NET Standard 2.1" and select **Next**.
```

Reviewer 2: Actually I don't even know what this screen looks like on VS for Mac. Is it the same start window as VS on Windows?

Reviewer 2: I see they do call it the start window, although it looks slightly different.

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/mac/ide-tour?view=vsmac-2019#getting-started

   > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
   > ![Visual Studio for Mac New project dialog](./media/using-on-mac-vs-full-solution/visual-studio-mac-new-project.png)

1. Name the project "TextUtils" (a short name for "Text Utilities") and the solution "WordCounter". Leave **Create a project directory within the solution directory** checked. Select **Create**.

   > [!div class="mx-imgBorder"]
   > ![Visual Studio for Mac New project dialog options](./media/using-on-mac-vs-full-solution/visual-studio-mac-new-project-options.png)

> 1. In the **Solution** pad, expand the `TextUtils` node to reveal the class file provided by the template, *Class1.cs*. Ctrl-click the file, select **Rename** from the context menu, and rename the file to *WordCount.cs*. Open the file and replace the contents with the following code:

Reviewer: why change from right-click?

Author: There's only one button on a Mac mouse.

   ![Visual Studio for Mac console window showing your app running](./media/using-on-mac-vs-full-solution/visual-studio-mac-console-window.png)

1. The last feature to explore is debugging with Visual Studio for Mac. Set a breakpoint on the `Console.WriteLine` statement: Select in the left margin of line 23, and you see a red circle appear next to the line of code. Alternatively, select anywhere on the line of code and select **Run** > **Toggle Breakpoint** from the menu.

   ![Visual Studio for Mac breakpoint set](./media/using-on-mac-vs-full-solution/visual-studio-mac-breakpoint.png)

1. ctrl-click the `WordCounterApp` project. Select **Start Debugging Project** from the context menu. When the app runs, enter the search word "cat" and "The dog chased the cat, but the cat escaped." for the string to search. When the `Console.WriteLine` statement is reached, program execution halts before the statement is executed. In the **Locals** tab, you can see the `searchWord`, `inputString`, `wordCount`, and `pluralChar` values.

   ![Visual Studio for Mac debugger program execution stopped](./media/using-on-mac-vs-full-solution/visual-studio-mac-debugger.png)

> 1. In the **Immediate** pane, type "wordCount = 999;" and press Enter. This command  assigns a nonsense value of 999 to the `wordCount` variable showing that you can replace variable values while debugging.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. In the **Immediate** pane, type "wordCount = 999;" and press Enter. This command assigns a nonsense value of 999 to the `wordCount` variable showing that you can replace variable values while debugging.
```
